Ryan (Sales): Hi everyone, um, thanks for dialling in. Today is our, like, security and compliance deep dive, so I've got Marcus from our security team joining as well.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): Hi all — Marcus here. I'm, uh, the security lead at Veltrix so please, you know, throw the hard questions at me directly.
Aisha (CISO): Aisha here — CISO at Meridian Group. I've got Reza, our DPO, on the call as well and, um, Thomas from legal.
Reza (DPO): Hi, Reza — Data Protection Officer. My focus today is, uh, GDPR compliance and, like, specifically our data residency situation.
Thomas (Legal): Thomas, legal. I'll be, um, looking at the contractual side — MSA terms, DPA structure, and, you know, data portability on exit.
Ryan (Sales): Great — really appreciate having, uh, the right people in the room. Marcus, do you want to give a quick overview of how we think about security before we get into their questions?
Marcus (Veltrix Security): Sure. So, um, the starting point is that Veltrix processes some of the most sensitive data an organisation holds — salaries, health records, national IDs, performance evaluations.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): So we've built a, like, defence-in-depth model rather than just perimeter security. Multiple layers — storage, application, key management — each independently controlled.
Aisha (CISO): Let's start with encryption. What's the, uh, at-rest encryption model and who manages the keys?
Marcus (Veltrix Security): All data at rest is encrypted with AES-256-GCM, um, industry standard. Keys are managed via AWS KMS with automatic annual rotation by default.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): But — and this is, like, important for an HRIS specifically — we add a second layer on the sensitive fields. National IDs, bank account details, salary figures, and health-related records are, you know, field-level encrypted at the application tier.
Aisha (CISO): So field-level encryption is on top of the storage encryption? What does that mean, uh, practically for someone with database access?
Marcus (Veltrix Security): A Veltrix support engineer with database access would see, um, AES ciphertext in those fields — not readable values. Decryption requires application-layer key access, which is, like, role-controlled. Only users with the Payroll Manager or HR Administrator role can decrypt and view those fields.
Aisha (CISO): And can we manage our own keys? We have a policy that, you know, sensitive data encryption keys should not be vendor-controlled.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): Yes — that's BYOK, Bring Your Own Key. Available on Enterprise plans. We support HashiCorp Vault, AWS KMS, Azure Key Vault, and Google Cloud KMS.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): With BYOK, Veltrix never holds a copy of your encryption keys. Every decryption operation requires a, um, live call to your KMS — which means your own audit logs capture every access attempt independently of ours.
Aisha (CISO): So if your team were compromised, or if there was, like, a rogue insider at Veltrix, could they access our salary data?
Marcus (Veltrix Security): No — for two reasons. First, field-level encryption means those fields are ciphertext at database level regardless. Second, with BYOK, even the application layer can't decrypt without calling your KMS — and if you revoke or rotate your key, access stops immediately without us being involved.
Aisha (CISO): That's, uh, a genuinely reassuring answer. What certifications do you hold?
Marcus (Veltrix Security): Active certifications are: ISO 27001 colon 2022, renewed February 2025; SOC 2 Type II, most recent audit period ending April 2025; ISO 27701 colon 2019, um, renewed February 2025; GDPR Article 28 DPA compliant; Cyber Essentials Plus for UK customers, renewed March 2025; and HIPAA BAA available on Enterprise.
Aisha (CISO): You said ISO 27701 — I haven't, like, actually seen that from an HRIS vendor before. What does it cover?
Marcus (Veltrix Security): ISO 27701 is the Privacy Information Management System standard. It, um, extends 27001 with specific controls for personal data processing — essentially it's the privacy-specific equivalent of the information security standard.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): Most vendors hold 27001 but not 27701. For an HRIS that processes salary data, health records, and disciplinary history, the, you know, 27701 is the independently audited evidence that privacy controls are continuously operative — not just designed on paper.
Reza (DPO): That's actually, uh, meaningful for us. GDPR Article 9 health data is a specific concern — can I ask about data residency?
Marcus (Veltrix Security): Sure. We operate in four AWS regions. EU customers are assigned to EU West — that's, um, Ireland — by default. US goes to US East Virginia, ANZ to Sydney, and other APAC to Singapore.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): Disaster recovery replication is, like, within-jurisdiction only. EU-to-EU only — Irish primary replicates to a secondary EU region. EU data never, you know, crosses to the US East region under any circumstances including a failover.
Reza (DPO): We're EU-headquartered with a UK subsidiary. Where does UK employee data sit — EU or UK?
Marcus (Veltrix Security): That's, um, your choice and we specify it in the DPA. UK data can go to EU West Ireland — which keeps everything under a single EU residency — or we can assign UK employee data to a dedicated UK region if you prefer, you know, explicit UK data residency post-Brexit.
Reza (DPO): And you mentioned DPA — is that, uh, included in the standard contract or something we have to request separately?
Ryan (Sales): It's a, like, standard exhibit in all MSAs — included at no extra cost. GDPR Article 28 compliant, covers controller-processor obligations, sub-processor disclosure, data subject rights support, breach notification timelines, and deletion.
Reza (DPO): Sub-processor disclosure — where is that published? Our DPO review requires us to, um, assess all sub-processors before sign-off.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): privacy.veltrix.io — publicly accessible, always current. And the DPA requires us to give you, you know, 30 days written notice of any additions or changes to the sub-processor list.
Reza (DPO): We'll also need a custom DPA. We have specific Article 9 clauses for health data and, uh, particular requirements around the UK-EU transfer mechanism post-Brexit.
Ryan (Sales): Custom DPAs are fully supported. Um, typically adds two to four weeks to the deal cycle while our legal team reviews. Fee is waived on Business and Enterprise plans.
Ryan (Sales): And I should mention — our standard DPA already includes, like, the EU Standard Contractual Clauses and the UK International Data Transfer Agreement. Your Article 9 health data clauses would be the primary addition to negotiate.
Reza (DPO): That's good to know — it means, uh, the heavy lifting on the transfer mechanisms is already done. Let me ask about breach notification.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): Seventy-two hours from confirmed breach — in line with, you know, GDPR Article 33. The notification includes: the nature of the incident, categories of data affected, estimated record count, likely consequences, and measures taken or proposed.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): A named Veltrix security contact is assigned to your team for the, um, duration of the incident response — not a generic support inbox. You'll have a direct line to someone who knows your account.
Reza (DPO): Named contact in a breach situation is, uh, critically important. Generic inboxes in an Article 33 response are genuinely dangerous from a compliance timeline perspective.
Thomas (Legal): Can I, um, jump in on the contractual side? What's the termination notice period for an annual contract?
Ryan (Sales): Annual contracts require, like, 60 days notice before the renewal date. If notice isn't given within that window, the contract auto-renews for another 12 months at, uh, the then-current pricing.
Thomas (Legal): And termination for cause?
Ryan (Sales): Either party can terminate immediately on written notice if, um, the other party materially breaches the agreement and fails to cure within 30 days of receiving written notice. All notices go to legal at veltrix.io.
Thomas (Legal): Does the MSA include an IP indemnification clause? We've, uh, had a vendor try to put all third-party IP liability on us before.
Ryan (Sales): It's mutual indemnification. Veltrix indemnifies the customer against third-party claims that the platform infringes a patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret, as long as the customer, you know, notifies us promptly and grants us control of the defence.
Thomas (Legal): What's excluded from the indemnity?
Ryan (Sales): Three standard carve-outs — claims from, um, customer-created content, customer-configured third-party integrations, and modifications to the platform made without Veltrix authorisation. Standard across the industry.
Thomas (Legal): And the liability cap?
Ryan (Sales): Standard MSA caps at 12 months of fees paid. Enterprise customers typically, like, negotiate higher caps and our legal team is open to that discussion.
Thomas (Legal): We'll want to negotiate that. What happens to our data if we, uh, terminate the contract?
Marcus (Veltrix Security): Sixty days post-termination to export all data — CSV, JSON, and PDF formats — via the Admin Console or API. No per-gigabyte fees, um, it's fully included.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): After the 60-day window: production data deleted within 14 days, backup data within 90 days. We automatically issue a, you know, signed deletion certificate when the process is complete.
Reza (DPO): Sixty days is, uh, better than the 30-day standard I've seen from most vendors. And the signed deletion certificate is something our GDPR audit trail requires, so that's, like, important.
Aisha (CISO): One last one from me — what's the uptime SLA and, um, the P1 response time?
Ryan (Sales): Business plan is 99.95 percent monthly uptime, which is roughly, like, 22 minutes of allowable downtime per month. Enterprise dedicated infrastructure is up to 99.99 percent.
Ryan (Sales): P1 — platform unavailable or payroll data at risk — is a two-hour initial response, 24/7 on Business. One hour, 24/7 with a named Technical Account Manager on Enterprise.
Aisha (CISO): We run payroll on the last business day of each month. If the system is down on, uh, payroll run day — is that automatically a P1?
Marcus (Veltrix Security): Yes — payroll module unavailability on a scheduled run day qualifies as P1 regardless of whether the, um, rest of the platform is accessible. And for critical payroll customers we recommend flagging your run date in onboarding so our infrastructure team can, like, note it for proactive monitoring.
Aisha (CISO): Proactive monitoring on payroll run days is, uh, something I've never heard a vendor offer. That's a, you know, really practical commitment.
Ryan (Sales): It's something we, um, started doing after feedback from payroll customers — the last thing anyone needs is a support ticket on payday.
Thomas (Legal): I think we have, uh, enough to progress to MSA review. Can you get us a draft MSA and the NDA for the security pack?
Ryan (Sales): Absolutely — I'll get the MSA draft, the NDA, and once it's countersigned, Marcus will send the SOC 2 Type II report, the ISO 27701 certificate, and the, you know, pen test executive summary. All within 24 hours of signature.
Marcus (Veltrix Security): And for the custom DPA — just email legal at veltrix.io with, um, the subject line Custom DPA Request, Meridian Group, and we'll get the legal teams introduced directly.
Aisha (CISO): Really good call — you, uh, answered the hard questions without deflecting. That's noted.
Ryan (Sales): Thank you, Aisha — we'd rather, like, you know everything now than be surprised after you sign. That's genuinely how we operate. Thanks everyone.